What's New in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 133) (#3374)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/whats-new/2025/02/devtools-133.md

Reviewer: Can you please change the DevTools what's new link near the top of https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/web-platform/release-notes/133 to point to this new file?

There will always be a bit of delay as we publish the web platform release notes at beta-time, but we publish the devtools what's new at stable-time. But that's ok, when devtools what's new is out, we should go back to the web platform release notes and update the link.

Reviewer 2: result:
```
<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Edge DevTools

For Edge DevTools, see [What's New in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 133)](../../devtools-guide-chromium/whats-new/2025/02/devtools-133.md).
```
\edge-developer\microsoft-edge\web-platform\release-notes\133.md

---
title: What's New in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 133)
description: "Move a tab left or right within the Elements or Sources tool. Screen reader improvements. And more."
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: microsoft-edge
ms.subservice: devtools

> ms.date: 2/06/2025

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 02/06/2025
```

---
# What's New in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 133)

[!INCLUDE [Microsoft Edge team note for top of What's New](../../includes/edge-whats-new-note.md)]

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Move a tab left or right within the Elements or Sources tool

<!-- Subtitle: Move a tab left or right within a tab group in the Elements or Sources tool by right-clicking the tab. -->

> Previously, within the **Elements** tool and **Sources** tool, you could rearrange the tabs within a tab group only by dragging them.  This can be difficult when using a trackball or head pointer.  Now, you can also move a tab by right-clicking the tab and then selecting **Move left** or **Move right**.

Reviewer: @leahmsft should we also mention that this is an improvement for keyboard users? I'm assuming these new context menu items are keyboard accessible.

Reviewer 2: result: 
```
This can be difficult when using a trackball, head pointer, or keyboard.  Now, you can also move a tab by right-clicking the tab (or pressing the **Context menu** key) and then selecting **Move left** or **Move right**.
```
https://www.howtogeek.com/425623/what-is-the-menu-key-for-and-how-to-remap-it/

Right-clicking a tab within the **Elements** tool:

![The right-click menu for a tab in the Elements tool](./devtools-133-images/elements-tab-menu.png)

Right-clicking a tab within the **Sources** tool:

![The right-click menu for a tab in the Sources tool](./devtools-133-images/sources-tab-menu.png)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Screen reader improvements
> 
> <!-- Subtitle: Screen reader improvements in Developer resources, Elements, and CSS overview.-->
> 
> The screen reader has been improved for various tools.

Reviewer: We didn't improve the screen reader itself, we improved various aspects of the DevTools code which help screen readers better read the content.

So maybe:

```suggestion
## Screen reader support mprovements

<!-- Subtitle: Screen reader support improvements in Developer resources, Elements, and CSS overview.-->

Support for screen readers has been improved for various tools.
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Developer resources tool

> In the **Developer resources** tool, after you search by using the **Filter by URL and error** text box, the screen reader announces the results information.  If no results are available, the screen reader announces **no appeared results**:<!-- todo: "no results appeared"? -->

Reviewer 2: does screen reader say "no appeared results" or "no results appeared"?   I'd expect "zero results".
@leahmsft

Reviewer 2: closing Outd.  [fresh](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/3374/files#r1956272976)

> In the **Developer resources** tool, after you search by using the **Filter by URL and error** text box, the screen reader announces the results information.  If no results are available, the screen reader announces **no appeared results**:<!-- todo: "no results appeared"? -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Developer resources** tool, after you search by using the **Filter by URL and error** text box, screen readers announce the results information.  If no results are available, screen readers announce **no appeared results**:<!-- todo: "no results appeared"? -->
```

> In the **Developer resources** tool, after you search by using the **Filter by URL and error** text box, screen readers announce the results information.  If no results are available, screen readers announce **no appeared results**:<!-- todo: "no results appeared"? -->

Reviewer 2: latest commit:
```
If no results are available, screen readers announce **no resource matches**:
```
i'll capitalize

![The Filter box in Developer resources](./devtools-133-images/developer-resources-filter-box.png)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Elements tool

> In the **Elements** tool, the screen reader announces the expanded or collapsed state of the **More tabs** button and tab group, shown here in the expanded state:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Elements** tool, screen readers announce the expanded or collapsed state of the **More tabs** button and tab group, shown here in the expanded state:
```

![The More tabs button in the Elements tool, with the tab group expanded](./devtools-133-images/elements-more-tabs-invoked.png)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### CSS overview tool

> In the **CSS overview** tool, when navigating to a tab, the screen reader announces the tab label.  After entering that tab and then navigating to an **occurrences** button, the screen reader announces the button's label, such as "two occurrences":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **CSS overview** tool, when navigating to a tab, screen readers announce the tab label.  After entering that tab and then navigating to an **occurrences** button, screen readers announce the button's label, such as "two occurrences":
```
